

    Death never yet surprised the sage,
    Who's always ready for the stage;
    Knowing each hour that comes may be
    His passage to eternity.
    Death's rule embraces every day:
    Each moment is beneath his sway.
    We all pay tribute to that lord;
    We all bow down beneath his sword.
    The instant the king's child has birth--
    And looks forth on this desert earth---
    That instant Death may it surprise,
    And close its scarcely-opened eyes.
    Beauty, youth, virtue, every day,
    Death steals so ruthlessly away.
    One day the world will be his prey:
    This knowledge is most largely shared;
    For no event we're less prepared.

    A dying man, a century old,
    Complained to Death, that he was told
    Too suddenly, before his will
    Was made; he'd duties to fulfil;
    "Now, is it just," this was his cry,
    "To call me, unprepared, to die?
    No; wait a moment, pray, sir, do;
    My wife would wish to join me, too.
    For still one nephew I'd provide:
    And I have causes to decide.
    I must enlarge my house, you know.
    Don't be so pressing, pray, sir, go."
    "Old man," said Death, "for once be wise;
    My visit can be no surprise.
    What! I impatient? In the throng
    Of Paris who has lived so long?
    Find me in all France even ten;
    I should have warned you, you say then?
    And so your will you would have made,
    Your grandson settled; basement laid.
    What! not a warning, when your feet
    Can scarcely move, and fast retreat
    Your memory makes, when half your mind
    And wit is left a league behind?
    When nearly all fails?--no more hearing--
    No taste--all fading, as I'm fearing.
    The star of day shines now in vain
    For you: why sigh to view again
    The pleasures out of reach? Just see
    Your comrades drop continually,
    Dead, dying: is no warning there?
    I put it to you, is this fair?
    Come, come, old man; what! wrangling still?
    No matter, you must leave your will;
    The great republic cares not, sir,
    For one or no executor."

    And Death was right: old men, at least,
    Should die as people leave a feast,
    Thanking the host--their luggage trim:
    Death will not stay to please their whim.
    You murmur, dotard! look and sigh,
    To see the young, that daily die;
    Walk to the grave or run, a name
    To win of everlasting fame:
    Death glorious may be, yet how sure,
    And sometimes cruel to endure.
    In vain I preach; with foolish zeal,
    Those most akin to death but feel
    The more regret in quitting life,
    And creep reluctant from the strife.




