

    An Ape and a Leopard one day repair--
    Money to gain--to a country fair,
    And setting up separate booths they vie,
    Each with each, in the arts of cajolery.
    "Come, see me," cries Leopard, "come, gentlemen come,
    The price of admission's a very small sum;
    To the great in all places my fame is well known,
    And should death overtake me, the king on his throne
    Would be glad of a robe from my skin;
        For 'tis mottled and wattled,
         And stained and ingrained
    With spots and with lines, lines and spots thick and thin,
    That truly, though modest, I can but declare,
    'Tis by far the most wonderful thing in the fair."
    This bounce attained its end, and so
    The gulls came hurrying to the show;
    But, the sight seen, and the cash spent,
    They went away in discontent.
    Meanwhile the Ape cries--"Come, and see
    The sum of versatility!
    Yon Leopard boasts, through thick and thin,
    A splendid show of outside skin;
    But many varied gifts I have
    (For which your kind applause I crave)
    All safely lodged my brain within.
    Your servant I, Monsieur Guffaw,
    The noble Bertrand's son-in-law,
    Chief monkey to his Holiness
    The Pope. I now have come express,
    In three huge ships, to have with you
    The honour of an interview:
    For speaking is my special forte,
    And I can dance, and hoops jump through,
    And other kinds of tumbling do,
    And magic feats perform of every sort;
    And for six blancos? no, I say, a sou;
    But if with the performance you
    Are discontented, at the door
    To each his money we'll restore."
        And right was the Ape:
        For the colour and shape
    Of fine clothes can but please for awhile,
        Whilst the charms of a brain
        That is witty, remain,
    And for ever can soothe and beguile.
        Ah! there's many a one,
        Lord and gentleman's son,
    Who holds high estate here below,
        Who to Leopards akin
        Has nought but fine skin
    As the sum of his merits to show.




