

    Our lives are spoiled by demons twain;
    Turn in, turn out; by each, in season;
    By each with reckless force is slain
    That which we mortals call our <i>reason</i>.
    And if you ask their name and state,
    I'll name god Love, the potentate,
    For one; and for the other,
    I'll name Ambition, Love's half-brother,
    Who, not seldom, Love defeats,
    And reigns within his choicest seats,
    All this I soon could prove; but now
    That which I wish to tell is how
    A Shepherd by a King was sent for,
    And what this royal deed was meant for.
    The tale belongs to distant ages,
    And not to those which fill these pages.
    A numerous flock that filled the plain,
    And brought the owner heaps of gain,
    Through Shepherd's care and industry,
    Once met a sapient's Monarch's eye.
    Pleased with such skill and thrift, he said,
    "Good Shepherd, to rule men thou'rt bred;
    Leave now thy sheep. Come, follow me;
    Accept my widest satrapy.
    And so our Shepherd, who before
    Had scarce had friend but hermit poor,
    And very seldom had in view
    Aught but his sheep and wolf or two,
    Was with a viceroy's sceptre graced;
    Nor was he by this change misplaced,
    For Nature had endowed his mind
    With funds of great good sense;
    And how to govern human kind
    He amply learned from thence.


    [ILLUSTRATION: THE SHEPHERD AND THE KING.]


    Ere many days had passed away,
    His former friend, the hermit,
    Came running quickly, crying---"Say,
    'Tis dream-work, or as truth affirm it,
    That you are now beloved of kings,
    And deal yourself in regal things.
    Oh, kings mistrust; their favour goes
    Life snow on water; thousand woes
    Fall ever on the luckless wight
    Who basks a time in kingly might.
    You know not to what precipice
    You haste. Come back; take my advice."
    The other smiled; on which the man
    Of sacred life, continuing, said--
    "Alas! already I can scan
    How far astray your wits have fled;
    Your foolish conduct calls to mind
    The story of the traveller blind,
    Who sees a snake benumbed with cold;
    The creature frosts so numb and nip,
    He lies like some old leathern whip;
    His own just lost, the man takes hold,
    And waves the reptile in his joy,
    When one who passes by that way
    Cries--'Heavens! throw that snake away,
    Or quickly 'twill your life destroy.'
    'No snake; but a good whip,' replied the other.
    'No whip; but snake,' replied the stranger;
    'And, pray, should I thus make a pother
    Unless I saw your woful danger?
    And will you really keep that thing,
    With fangs so sharp, and deadly sting?'
    'Of course, I shall; my whip was lost,
    And this will save another's cost.
    You speak from envy--sir, good-bye.'
    The snake, now brandished wide and high,
    Grew warm and warmer gradually,
    And, stinging, caused the fool to die.
    But, as for you, my satrap friend,
    You hasten to a bitterer end."
    "What! worse than death?" the satrap cried.
    "Ah! worse than death," the sage replied.
    And, in due time, the hermit's word
    Was proved with truth in due accord;
    For all the pests that haunt a Court,
    By hint and wink, and false report,
    Soon made the satrap's virtuous skill
    Seem to his royal master ill.
    Cabals arose on every side;
    Defeated suitors loudly cried,
    "With what belonged to us he built that palace wide."
    The Monarch fain would see this wealth,
    And thither stole one day by stealth,
    But nought within it met his eyes
    Save modest mediocrities,
    And praises of the joys that lie
    In loneliness and poverty.
    "His wealth, then," cried the pests, "consists
    In diamonds, pearls, and amethysts;
    In yonder chest with locks his hoard,
    The ransom of a king, is stored!"
    The Monarch, with his own white hands,
    Undoes the locks and clumsy bands,
    Throws back the wooden lid--and mute
    Each base calumnious courtier stands;
    For in that oaken chest is nought
    But cap and jacket, roughly wrought,
    A simple cloak, a shepherd's flute.
    "Ah! much-loved treasures;" then exclaims
    The Shepherd; "you are dear, indeed,
    For never did you rouse the greed
    Or malice of my fellow-men,
    And you your master now reclaims;
    Let's leave this palace, ne'er again
    To enter, save in airy vision.
    Monarch! pardon this decision;
    When I mounted Fortune's height,
    A fate untimely met my sight;
    But who, alas! is quite so wise,
    As not sometimes to wish to rise?"




